we live I don't know hold
on okay okay
the hell is going on here some funny
business are we live are we live
so couple years ago I wrote this library
for
hypergraphs and I realized I want to
rewrite this in Rust and I already found
a
hypergraph rust library but this guy is
doing all sorts of fancy stuff he's
using more than one file
any programmer that use more than one
file you know you should be a little
suspicious because more than one
file they love it to be complex they
they want the world to just bask in
their Glory I don't know but we don't do
that here we write one file for the
project that's it that's the whole
project it's just a script you just
cargo run it and it shows you what the
library does
so we're not going to use this I don't
know how long this is going to take I
actually have done two hypergraph
libraries the other one used uh AC sets
and used cat lab and this one I never
did rewriting on so oh there's also
another Library I need to go
to
um oh by the way freaking guys check it
out uh wait is this going to show my
email whatever I think it's a dummy
email but uh we hit 100 subscribers
thank you very much for the 100 Subs
chat you know what to do dubs all right
I'm anyways the video that blew up which
was really
funny blew up in for me is just this
taking pictures video I don't know what
it is about this video that did why it
like got to the right people but one
thing that's interesting I was thinking
about like what is it that the YouTube
algorithm
does
and I feel like it tries to
basically like once it's sort of figured
out the demographic the click-through
rate the average watch time once those
statistics are relatively accurate in
their prediction then it can basically
stop um
or like it this is like a first pass and
then it starts to like send it to the
the demographic
but it's a really it's really
interesting looking at these analytics
and thinking about how does the YouTube
algorithm actually work
like because you could see like since it
had a higher clickthrough rate it got
suggested to more people so it just like
reinforced itself but it had a stable
click-through rate so
basically what that means is like it's
not like as it suggested it to more
people it it drops to zero because once
it's getting out of its demographic of
high likelihood of high click-through
rate then it should just kill the video
anyways that that that's my that's what
I was thinking about so but I don't know
why this one did well I don't think
there's anything in there that's
necessarily good but I just wanted to
like go over that because it's probably
a pretty interesting way that it weeds
out videos all right
so uh then the the real
Library how do I see my
repositories I don't
know oh it's up here
um I wrote this before I wrote the other
one does this you I probably just fixed
the bug let's
see graph hyper graphs
symbolics that's nice I probably don't
even need
symbolics I don't I think it's just for
pattern
matching I hope we don't have to let's
see one
file I don't know why I didn't put this
in the library is equal hypergraph 1
hypergraph 2 you can whatever I think
you could probably so what we'll
probably do in
Rust uh just do
whatever ew ew ew
ew
ew all
right
um oh yeah I tried to get a Discord bot
working but it didn't work for the
display so it's too bad um
okay
so I think that this is going to
be
uh do you have to say mute here I don't
even know let's see does co-pilot
work I feel like co-pilot's always
broken
okay yeah it could be anything who
knows
um okay
so let's go to the hypergraph because I
don't want to use the answer I have the
answer right here it's a vea ve and it's
a vea ve and that's all it is but I
don't you know what but what it will
help me is if I look at the test and see
how I oh yeah I wanted to write this
thing about the uh this is a cool file
actually um I was thinking of
like methods and currying and
subtyping as like simplicial complies
what whatever simpal complexes and I
don't know if I ever really got this to
work but I wanted to take all of the
the types are vertices and the
hyperedges are
methods yeah that's interesting because
it's
like yeah this is so cool we should do
this with rust code we should take some
big ass rust libraries and see if we
can I wonder if it's the same or if it
even has that good of reflection tooling
cuz the cool thing about
Julia and lisp is it's so Dynamic that
you don't have to compile it first but
maybe we could just interpret as it does
a is there just like a rust
interpreter it would be hard this I
think is this just a jit I actually
never really understood what evaluation
context meant
that's
for each code snippet it makes a dll
huh why don't they what is the equ
how good is cling I I I heard from the
Julie people want to say cing is Garbo
but if it's just for C it might be
cool the thing is not not many people
use
it I guess the debugging is good enough
that you don't really need an
interpreter
it's a 30 minute video bro I
press enter runs all right I'm I'm
watching
that I probably looked at that post
before okay so let's just go to hyper
I remember the the thing that always got
me with the data structure for
hypergraphs I don't remember if this
ended up being a non-issue but what I
remember is
that that for rules that eliminate or
for algorithms that eliminate nodes
and uh edges is
that uh that keeping everything
contiguous or like referencing the right
Vector with indices was a little bit
challenging but I don't exactly
remember anyway so hypergraph is a
really simple thing
overall should I just go to this this no
this doesn't have the hypergraph I
honestly we we want graphy writing and I
I actually want I whatever let's just
let's just read
this
yeah I'm just curious what
why is everything as struct I don't like
that dude just give me
ins over abstraction
bro okay a hybri edge is just a set of
yeah
maybe you do want to just keep them as
hash
sets was the actual solution for
me did this ever
work it's kind of lame
I don't I don't think I actually NE I
don't remember if I
uh dude I love that now two years later
I can just ask these questions
yeah in traditional graph Theory the
cartisian product of two graphs is a
graph where the vertex set consists of
all ordered
pairs so you get okay
I love this
picture
um wait those are two different Blues I
don't like that those Blues are so close
together dude this is very
confusing okay so dark blue and brown
form a vertex and so does light blue and
uh Brown
does this mean when they say two
vertices are adjacent that means that
defines the EDG set right
yeah let's get an
example caresan product with two edges
gives you a
cycle for
[Music]
all
right in the shade so I won't get
sunburned so I can take off my shirt I
love the sun I wish I could
just withstand the
sun oh my gosh I really did that this
whole time that sucks okay what did we
go
over that sucks that's a big L bro
that's a big
L
okay I just want to look at an example
of a hypergraph let me just figure this
out so
so this is the
rewriting yeah I can't handle more than
one Edge on the left hand
side I don't care
can't decide can't
decide okay so here's the hypergraph
library contains the list of hyperedge
indices that include v as a vertex
Vector to hyper edges okay so the the
hyper edges are
indexed
and so the like for the first element of
this um and why was that the design I
don't know if I came up with this on my
own I wish I was streaming that
and I could just like go ask and
check contains the list of indices to in
here that include v as a Vertex let me
get a
notebook yeah I'll get a
notebook e
for
fu
huh I don't know about all that oh shoot
okay so let's just get an example of a
hypergraph let me look at that
picture Okay so let's just draw this
picture down
as the
structure it's so hype I was looking
through my old notebook and I stumbled
on this hypergraph stuff and it's like
bro I need need to do that again cuz
that was such a fun project man I love
graph Theory all right so we
have we have uh just say the ver the
vertex set
is
uh one to
7 okay then the hyper the EET is there's
one there's four
edges okay so we're going to have in the
first in the first list here see where
were
we
this contains the
list okay
so first off let's just do this which is
um
this is
um okay so this
is the structure
so let's just say we
have the
empty hypergraph with like one
vertex then it should just be a list of
Okay so
okay so the empty
hypergraph wait can we just derive
everything debug
clone eek hash I love that dude poor
okay I don't know about all
that is that how you do
it the [__]
[Music]
bro that's not right
I think it's
that okay that seems fine so then so
this this answers the question do you do
triple I don't know if you do triple but
this is has length and
envy and
it's it answers
and for each
element uh answers the
question
um which
indices into H to
V have my V my index
that's basically
it so the
empty hyper graph the hyper graph with
two
vertices and zero edges looks
like um
can we just use this thing um
okay so
um so if we go
here what print all right I'll probably
load
forever oh we need to do this
oh wait it's not going to is it going to
no I don't think I ever registered
that the Manifest do I say a get ha
probably it probably works
okay so let's see if this
works let's just try to call
update what dude D this is what I'm
saying bro come
on just fail already so I can
update okay this is ridiculous
dude if this
compat dude I don't get
why this is so bad
okay it didn't look like there's any
breaking changes
so maybe we'll be
okay okay I'm just going to
okay what what do I expect this to look
like it
has so this will be
so that means that this should
be
um so that means that we should
have
oh so example no Edge to the graph
is uh that and then we have this
okay but
then then when we add a
graph or an
edge
uh yeah
then we
have one or oh should we one Index this
one indexing is clearly Superior
I guess in this case it's
zero um so we're going to
have
uh V2 h e is 0
0 and
then okay cool I basically just wait for
it to come back all right
so
um this is going to look like yeah yeah
that's exactly right so this is like the
simplest way you could possibly think of
doing a hypergraph is you
say but technically this is all you
[Music]
need because what you could do is you
could
um this is technically all you need to
actually
describe well that that's not exactly
true because there could be vertices
like in this
case um that have no edges so you need
to know how many
vertices are there
from this okay so that that all makes
sense so let's just
say I don't know what the the way to do
this
is cuz the way that I implemented this
in okay you know what we're just going
to
say okay that that's fine oh perfect
wait why does it need to be
that should we just do U
size then we can get rid of some of this
random crap
okay so uh
that's probably right let's see uh the
edges are a VC of yeah collections of
vertices and for each one you just call
that that's makes sense and then let's
see if this logic is Right add an edge
to add an edge you also have to iterate
over all of these guys to let them know
that they're in
that V2 h e
and H is going to be a u
size I'm guessing this indexing is
correct I just wish it was one
based okay so then
you okay perfect so we're all good
I love
it okay so was that what we expected yes
it was so then
perfect perfect so that's all you need
to represent hypergraphs naturally it's
a very simple data structure so the
question now is we can finally go to
tarz Amro I'm getting [__] built dude
I've been going to the gym man and it
feels
amazing you know we're all into the gym
and the and we're just they are having a
good
time um
okay oh what did I just close I just
closed
it
okay that was not so bad so
now dude think think what we did
in 50 lines of code this
guy
did I mean he obviously does way more
but what I'm saying is
is it's complicated what is that program
to count the lines of code what's that
tool that counts line of code and
estimates the
cost it's called like it's not clock
there was a new
one
no names some clock
alts dude no I'm only like a week into
it I'm trying to remember was it
clock I thought
clock oh
God wait
bro that's that's what I was thinking
of
scoop do I even have scoop oh I have
chocolaty wind get
SEC bro whatever
whatever oh yeah do I have to do
that uh so close this and then open it
as
admin oh why did I press the wrong thing
okay wait do we have the terminal now so
I can
now oh wait I didn't even have to put in
my I did not have to do that
whatever yes come on
bro what do you want to run the script
probably
God all these tools scoop chocy wind get
they're all freaking
annoying what I I never cloned cast 3
under here that's kind of crazy actually
that I haven't dude Brew is good I don't
know okay Brew is a little slow but Brew
is very good
the thing is I think Brew actually works
on Windows too no no no Brew doesn't
work on Windows Brew Works on Unix
systems so it works on Linux 2o but I
feel like there was like some weird
support with that like it's not as good
as Apple but uh all right so let's go to
Gamepad and let's
SEC 3,000 for this dude I wish someone
would
I wish someone would give me $33,000 for
a little Gamepad
application so you can control your
computer anyway so that's SEC so let's
go back to uh now that we have sec we
can go so that so chocy did work but
it's just like Windows is
garbage um oh wait we wanted to we
wanted to go
to right
yes so
there's oh
wait there
is 4,000 lines of code it took 50 lines
of
code code complexity yeah you want to
see my code complexity
bro bam code complexity three it's a
data structure and a couple of method
okay so now we're going to let's see
should I read the introduction I'll read
the introduction that sounds fun quantum
mechanics and general relativity both
introduced more than a century
ago have delivered many impr impressive
successes in physics but they've not
allowed the formulation of a complete
fundamental theory of our universe and
at this point it seems worthwhile to try
exploring other foundations from which
space time and general relativity
quantum mechanics and all the other
known features of physics could emerge
the purpose here is to introduce a class
of models that could be relevant the
models are set up to be as minimal and
structureless as possible but despite
the Simplicity of their construction
they can nevertheless exhibit great
complexity and structure in their
behavior even independent of their
possible relevance to fundamental
physics the models appear to be of
significant interest in their own right
not at least a source of examples
amendable to Rich analysis by modern
methods of mathematics mathal physics
yeah I was thinking like about Dynamics
on hypergraphs like if you have L laav
voltera Predator pre models like can you
just use rewriting to add spe I don't
know something weird like that um but
what is potentially significant for
physics is that with exceptionally
little input the models already seem to
be able to reproduce some
important and sophisticated uh features
of known fundamental physics and give
suggestive indications of being able to
reproduce much more more our approach
here is to carry out a fairly extensive
empirical investigation of the models
and then use the results of this to make
it okay
dude let's see all right I'll keep
reading it I'll keep reading it if if
this stream wants to go as long as it it
can our approach here is to carry out a
fair fundament extensive empirical
investigation of the models then use the
results of this to make connections with
known mathematical and other features of
physics we do not know a priority
whether any model that we would
recognize as simple can completely
describe the operation of our universe
although the very existence of physical
laws does seem to uh indicate some
Simplicity but uh it is basically
inevitable that if a simple model exists
then almost nothing about the universe
as we normally perceive it including
Notions like space and time would fit
recognizably into the model that's
actually a good point I'm glad I read
that I didn't think about
that and given this the approach that we
take is to consider models that are as
minimal and structuralist as possible so
that in effect there's the greatest
opportunity for the phenomenon of
emergence to operate bro Stephen wol is
just on another plane the models
introduced here have their origins in
network-based models studied in the
1990s okay that's probably an
addendum the present models are more
minimal and structureless they can be
thought of as abstracted versions of a
surprisingly wide range of types of
mathematical computational systems
combinatorial functional Cate okay
whatever um in what follows section 237
describe features of our models with
without specific reference to physics
Section 8 discusses how the results from
the preceding sections can potentially
be used to understand nonn fundamental
physics bro I don't give a [__] about
physics I'm just in the world living in
it wait which one said one month oh yeah
yeah
bro that's actually hilarious
dude okay I guess I can Coast for the
next [__]
month oh yeah that is hilarious dude
that is so wildly off I did it in 45
minutes and most of that was goofing off
and moving my monitor
okay
so what we want to
do is all right so I will also create
this
um
okay
the following is the graph from the
above uh pi
okay so yeah
so uh it has seven vertices so you to
add vertices
seven G do add okay I don't remember
exactly the edge set is going to
be uh one two oh [__] it's going to be
zero dude Rush should be one index two
so 01
2 then E2 is going to be 2 three then
four is just or
wait so it's going to be 0 one the
what's the third Edge oh okay it's going
to be
356 then
four is just
four so we have 1 two three four edges
is that right one two 3 4 okay perfect
so um 01
h 2
three [__]
um 3 five
six and
four g. add
edges what am I doing bro can't type
today wait
actually maybe that's a little bit too
oh
wait oh you have to do it on all of
these come on
guys okay so we're
good the derived traits are is probably
one of the
the the other great features of rust is
like yeah U most of the time I don't
want to go in and Implement my own
freaking debug like I just want to print
it out is that so
hard
uh whatever all right so that's what
that looks like I think that's probably
right I can't imagine that it's wrong
let's see the length of this one 2 3 4
five six 7
okay so that seems wrong
because
seven oh
wait wait yeah something seems
wrong cuz this should be empty
right okay so the first guy the first
vertex only
appears in the in zero so that's right
then the second vertex appears in how
many edges two edges so it's
01 so this is seems wrong oh
wait yeah that seems wrong I don't know
oh you know what it's probably an off by
one
thing it probably is an off by one thing
what the hell
one line of code per
day but it's a really good line of code
so can you really say can anyone really
say okay
so all right then vertex the third
vertex
has three edges so it should be 0
2 then the
fourth Vertex or the yeah the fourth
vertex should just
be
um
three and the fifth vertex should just
be two and the sixth vertex should also
just be two and then seven should be
empty so somewhere we did this wrong
because it should
be should
okay
so
ah okay so it is
this uh I hate that should
be okay I'm just going to put the
triples if I put the triples does it
there we
go um
0o
uh yeah
three oh wait three 2 2 N
so let's see
oh wait let let's write the uh
no no no no that's not it at all
that's not it
bro yeah three viewers right now bro I'm
the best I'm the [__] man oh I got a
follower
thank you
Zach
okay
uh wait this is just wrong
dude oh
the why does it have seven this is not
the no bro this guy is so stupid
okay let me just read the
code I don't actually see
we need to add the remove edge stuff too
dude this is so easy to write it's
crazy I mean I bet that's all right I
don't really care about performance
we're not making million node
graphs okay
so we did the remove edge thing but we
need to figure this out
so let's
just did I just miswrite
these oh you know what I probably did
miswrite those they're probably not
three five six they're
probably wait I think they are three
five
oh my gosh one indexing is so so
obviously Superior so this should be
four um and
five I knew that code didn't look
wrong so wait did I get the other ones
wrong yeah so this is supposed to be 01
one two
then two four
five three okay
so bro what the
hell are you
kidding found a documentate
bro that prevents compilation are you
kidding
yeah that's the most horrendous thing
anyone could ever do is use three
parentheses makes the compiler fail can
you believe that okay that looks
right so now we have the general
hypergraph data
structure the next step is to start
doing this graph pattern matching
I wonder if we could have
a
um I wonder if that works
though because that probably assumes
[Music]
um
um the okay
wait should I put this here
and note about the structure is that you
cannot have vertex 3 without 2 and one
at
least being considered
empty not
included in any hypd so
yeah so there's no holes which is kind
of
interesting but maybe we should have
this
method cuz I do want to be able to just
click this and parse
it so this is not right so let me just
comment this up before I use it
okay so let let's actually do a
uh
commit um
okay read you know I don't even need I
just need to read me
okay initial hypergraph data stru
structor oh
yeah to do well you know what but the
type system of rust is different
so oh you probably weren't here at the
time but I was going back through my old
code and I did this cool thing with the
type the type system of Julia to figure
out wait this is the wrong thing
um to try to take a
module of a
Julia and you make for each vertex you
have a for each type you have a vertex
and then the methods defined within the
module are the the hyperedges and so
it's just like a cool way to think about
about the structure of a code
base
um and then I got weird and I was like
oh but it's actually a simplicial
complex I don't remember all that that
that stuff I forget but like the general
thing
of uh of of this is uh is interesting to
me okay so now we can commit
this we can do a
um
GitHub uh hyper
graph
rewriting
[Music]
RS okay so now we'll get into it I'm
going to go pee let me get some fruit
too I should probably eat
lunch I'll make some
lunch
for
e
[Music]
for
e
e for
s e
[Music]
yes
e e
[Music]
for
all
right got a
PB&J should be
about
20 no maybe about 20 grams of protein
oh such a mess
though I got a
napkin
e for
okay so the way that I think about this
is it's like the left hand side
describes
it doesn't it's not necessarily just a
graph
though what's
up
that's what's up
Big
Bite skinny
EA
yeah you should go to the gym with
Cassidy that would be so
cool if I get sexy leave in your
ass fine but you'll be healthy that
that's a good
part did you have something you wanted
to say or just say hi is it close to to
um
hting the gym yeah prob to go home Ander
there's one in Burlington and there's
one in I prefer the one inam but
like they're not far do you go home
first
though yeah I typically go home and do
dinner and then I go oh okay how how
late does it
uh when does it close they're open till
11 the one in Dane is open 24 hours a
day oh that's clutch with 11 this one
closed at like nine that I go
to open 24 hours a day well that's too
much for me I can't handle all
that one time I got went at in the
morning that's
great have you seen that video of Alex
Jones and Andrew Callahan just pounding
tequila and getting on the bench it's so
funny they're just like
me I love you I'll talk to you later I
okay see you bye bye
all my
Shooters oh my La had another couch now
oh
my bought my mama that new house now oh
my now she cannot kick me out now oh
my dude these peanut butter and jelly
sandwiches are freaking mess
you know I needed a long stream all my
streams are like an hour I'm like what
am I doing all day
this is really interesting
that the the pattern variable or the
symbol on the left left hand
side the fact that it's not
distinct like how would you want to
enforce X and Y not equal to X like you
you must be able to put that in there
too
for for
I remember I downloaded the book of this
the PDF and it was on a flight and I was
reading it and I found a bug in
the in the in the but the online version
was totally fine throve me crazy cuz I
was like thought I didn't understand the
theory but it was actually just a bug
what if you just look up pattern
matching on
graphs graph pattern matching is a
generalization of string matching
okay
well they use big words
but for
is there a
Quantum graph
isomorphism bro that's kind of cool
what's the
the cost time of the algorithm is
polinomial dude why the hell didn't I
know that what is the algorithm I don't
think I'd be able to read it but
like for
that looks like a
loop I don't
know polinomial graph isomorphism sounds
pretty
nice
whatever we are not going to be doing
that on this computer anytime
soon
for for
I feel like
this is in direct conflict with this
archive
paper for
I never understood
[Music]
this for
wait oh exp I missed the EXP I was like
wait this seems really fast
dude I don't
bro is that not a beautiful starfish
it's not a starfish but a beautiful
fish for
[Music]
you know what why am I doing
this I mean this would be so cool if we
had polinomial time graph isomorphism
pattern matching would be easy
okay
why am I reading this dude I'm not going
to understand
that
okay
for for
damn I am
exhausted maybe I'll go upstairs and do
this
can we just look at these graphs for a
minute what does that mean by know me
old trees
why is it a finance thing I just want to
know what
it what the
hell for
I don't
know for
that that's so
cool so when you have
XX implies that X matched is equal to x
match or yeah the second
X for
oh yeah makes a binary
tree you can definitely have multi-
edges with the current
setup rules can involve several copies
of the same
relation so cool
X to wait
what for
okay so there's two new
vertices and then there's
uh yeah so it does okay it does make a
multi- edge okay but it goes away
[Music]
I don't know how they did this layouting
thing all right so the the way that you
write rules the examples we discussed
all contain only relations involving two
elements which can readily be
represented as ordinary directed graphs
but in the class of models we consider
it's also possible to have relations
involving other numbers of elements
what the hell there wasn't a single draw
drawing it wasn't a single drawing what
kind of crap is
that
for
for for
is
[Music]
I think this time I want to go the full
way and have the matcher be able to
do uh multiple edges on the left hand
side all right where are
we oh good no no frame drops
are very
little like this is a tough drawing to
make bro
I don't know how I'm going to I think
I'm just going to
Output uh edgeless as a string
to to be able to to make the list of
plot in Warframe because I don't think
I'm going to be able to do it
oh that's an interesting one
because this hyper Edge does not include
that second that multi yeah so it's not
even really a multi-
edge this doesn't really have a multi-
edge in
it it just happens that you can
decompose it and find that if you were
to treat every yeah whatever in a sense
there's a multi-edge but there's not
really a multi-edge
there brother why do they make such
weird ass drawing it's so
cool it's worth noting that in addition
to to having relations involving three
or more elements it is also possible to
have relations with just one element
here's an example of a rule involving
unary relations
okay this is where I think I gave up
but basically what yeah basically what
this
is yeah
yeah this means that all the rules we've
seen so far cons uh always transform
single edges or hyper edges
independently but consider a rule like
that XY and Y and XZ goes to XY xw YW ZW
that's [__] awesome
man
for for
and then you just leave that guy out
okay or
y to 3 Z to
yeah how many matches are there there's
probably a ton of
matches okay so if you have
one two 3
4 and you had the the pattern x
y y z and you could
match 1 to
two 1 to
uh
wait oh no no no no yeah it's
actually you could also just pick the
other guy
right with a rule that depends on a
single relation there is an obvious way
to define a
complete step in the evolution of the
system just make it correspond to the
result of applying the rule once to each
relation when the rule involves multiple
relations youve seen here that there can
be ambiguity in how it is applied and
one consequence of this is that there is
no longer an obvious unique way to
define a single complete step of
evolution for our purposes at this point
however we will take each step to be
what is obtained by scanning the
configuration of the system and finding
the largest
number oh I don't know if I implemented
that that seems hard I kind of doubt
that I did
that wait that seems really hard for our
purposes at this point however we will
take each step to be what is obtained by
scanning the Sy the configuration of the
system and finding the largest number of
nonoverlapping updates that can be
made in other words
we in a single step we update as many
edges as possible
we have seen that there can be several
ways to apply a particular rule to a
configuration of one of our systems it
is also possible that there may be no
way to apply a rule this can happen
happen trivially if the evolution of the
system reduces to the number of
relations yeah at some point there's
simply no relations yet left
yeah bro I love that I love that you
just don't know what it's going to do
without running
it I love that I love that so much
does this just copy as literally
that uh
oh
okay so
here we have
and the rule
is
for
for e
okay yeah that that that makes sense to
me but it's different than you think
because what actually happens is
that
yeah rules whose leftand sides are
connected operate locally on hypergraphs
oh
[__] yeah that's a crazy rule actually
yeah it's
a oh wait I'm a little
loud yeah it's a
hypergraph and it's doing rewriting on
hypergraphs so you have some patter it
it's very it's it's very similar to the
uh
Mathematica I got to cut my
nails
for
for for
okay all
done how long has the stream been
going all right yeah see you
bro I might I was thinking about ending
it too two hours in we wrote the library
now we just got to figure out how to do
the pattern
matching
for for
dude he's this is so
sick oh my God
23s and two
two yeah so but in systematic studies
it's often convenient just to use
integers to represent elements in
rules even though these are still to be
considered placeholders or pattern
variables not specific
[Music]
elements is important to note that
there's a certain arbitrariness in the
way the rules are written the names
assigned to elements
in general determining whether two
presentations of a rule or equivalent is
essentially a problem of hypergraph
isomorphism
[Music]
oh
boy for
are you con actually read the
code how many lines of code is
this well it's impossible to say because
it's literally
a [__] mountain of
Expressions so we have no idea
oh dude that's so sick
that
h for
[Music]
what what the [__] is
that that doesn't make you that's crazy
bro Tuple index
dude I
I don't
know yeah that makes
sense Okay so even though I don't
understand the thing about
the how they generate the rule number it
does make sense that it's not
dense the canana canity can
can Canon
ality
canonical
canonicity what
the oh my God
oh yeah I wanted to look at this this is
what I was looking for earlier
ooh random universe
it's so General that
oh I love that they have that that is so
cool
I have no idea what they mean by it
layered causal
graph neighborhood volumes oh what does
that
mean for
ooh that's cool you can do random
oh that's so
cool I mean I would be curious to know
just what are the with normal graphs not
even Hy graphs like
what what interesting Behavior can you
do oh yeah that's given it okay so the
number of possible rules and enumeration
this is this this is the stuff I love
given a particular signature one may ask
how how many distinct possible canonical
rules there are I mean you could ask the
total number but the Canon yeah
whatever dude that's so cool because
it's
literally it's literally unlabeled
versus
labeled yeah so you want to know the
number of
canonical as a first step one can ask
how many distinct elements occur in the
rule what does that even
mean oh yeah
the maximum conceivable number of
distinct
elements
yeah for
but that's
crazy that
there's maybe that's not crazy 560 rules
oh that's so cool
H yeah
the hell is a bell number
oh
partition for
oh wow sick
there should be two
right
what wait it's they hallucinated that
did I miss spell it oh
okay so there's
two okay so those are the Bell
numbers for
Wella
all right I am freaking exhausted I'm
I'm peace out we'll do the rewriting of
at least basic
rules uh meaning single relation on the
left hand side
tomorrow peace